---
title: Enough with the pleasantries
---

# Enough with the pleasantries

I am going to make an admission: for a long time, almost as long as I can remember, I've been being controlled, from moment to moment to a greater or lesser degree, by a certain voice, so to speak, inside my head. Often it was subconscious, but would become audible whenever I strayed from where I was comfortable.

Especially when I was in social situations that included people on whom I wanted to make a good impression, or to speak with more accuracy, on whom I wanted to avoid making a *bad* impression. The voice would remind me of the following: there are skills, let's call them "social skills," which if I were normal I would possess; but, being 'different,' unusual, and so on, I had to work hard so that people didn't realize that I was operating with an entirely different toolset.

It is remarkably difficult to properly explain oneself, even to oneself. As I am writing this, I am already sensible that many, or most, of my readers, will form the wrong impression of me, and perceiving this is already causing me to feel a certain discomfort. But it fascinates me that I might be affected at all by what people think, and I find it wonderful to delve into and unravel these psychological mysteries. When I really get real with myself, there are certain opinions that I'm working hard...or let me put that differently...that I'm expending needless energy to prevent people from having. I will list some of these as an exercise in being okay with being misunderstood, in leaning in to discomfort, and in playing with this feeling of vulnerability.

I'm afraid people will think I'm weird. No fun. That I can't talk properly. That my speech is inaudible, or inarticulate. That I don't understand their jokes or witticisms. Afraid that a certain vague opinion will form among some vague group of people that, That guy Raphael...he's no good. And on it goes. Does this bother you to hear? (Another thing I'm afraid of presently.) I want to explain to you that it's because of an incredible awareness that I know that this is going on in my mind, mostly subconsciously. But why say that? To defend myself. So I'll stop that, and continue. I'm afraid an opinion will get out that I'm bad in bed. Maybe my teeth are too yellow... maybe someone will notice that I have a few pimples on my butt. On my butt! That doesn't sound normal.

But there are more pronounced fears than these, that I might be gross or weird. I'm afraid that you will all discover just how confident I am, just how powerful I believe myself to be, that I truly believe right down to the core of my being that *nothing* is beyond my reach and capability.

It is on that last point that I'd like to stop this laundry list. I have come to a juncture in my life where I'm painfully aware that I have some important work to do here on Earth; work for which there is no precedent from my past actions. You know, I've long heard and recited Einstein's idea that we cannot solve the problems of our day with the same level of thinking that created them, but that was not a practicable paradigm for me until recently. It's a complete personal transformation that has awoken this mortal machine from a period of insensible slumber. I have now chosen and I declare with conviction that my life is dedicated to the benefit of others, and I am now under the powerful influence of the transformation that that has invoked.

And I *had* to make my life be about others and about contribution. I realize now that beyond not developing the habits and momentum of 'success,' I was paralyzed from a particular cognitive dissonance: I simultaneously wanted to be involved in great things, as well as despised the sort of individual who would put himself above others to achieve them. The reconciliation of this dissonance is so blindingly simple: I'm putting myself *below* others. Now. I'm here to serve and improve humanity. And now it's time to get to fucking work.

Look here: I'm all about having powerful conversations that can improve and influence our world. But my worry that you'd find me socially unskilled, that I'm a 'nerd,' that I might unwittingly cause you to misunderstand me and my intentions—which are always good-hearted—that I might through my rudeness or arrogance, or let's say that differently, from my being not well-practiced in the pleasantries surrounding even getting into and out of a conversation, that you might be rubbed the wrong way by me; this vague worry has been really putting the brakes on.

I admire those who can be authentically self-expressed, with seemingly no attention being paid to how they come across. And don't get me wrong: I think manners and 'phatic utterances,' and all the mechanics of courtesy in our culture are of great importance. It's just that personally I have to have the pendulum swing the other way in order to free myself. And I am going to pay little or no mind to courtesy for a while. This is an experiment.

I have some important work to do here, and I'd rather you know and understand me from what I accomplish for you and for humanity; than waste my energy in curating an image of myself for you that I'm 'harmless' and 'okay to be around.'